documentation/docs/concepts.md, before:

# Concepts

H2O LLM Studio is based on a few key concepts and uses several key terms across its documentation. Each, in turn, is explained within the sections below.

## LLM

A Large Language Model (LLM) is a type of AI model that uses deep learning techniques and uses massive datasets to analyze and generate human-like language. For example, many AI chatbots or AI search engines are powered by LLMs.  

## Generative AI

Generative AI refers to AI models that can generate new content, such as images, videos, or text, that did not exist before. These models learn from large datasets and use this knowledge to create new content that is similar in style or content to the original dataset.


## Fine-tuning

Fine-tuning refers to the process of taking a pre-trained language model and further training it on a specific task or domain to improve its performance on that task. It is an important technique used to adapt LLMs to specific tasks and domains. 

## LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation)

Low-Rank Adapation (LoRa) involves modifying the pre-trained model by adjusting its weights and biases to better fit the new task. This adaptation is done in a way that preserves the pre-trained weights from the original dataset while also adjusting for the new task's specific requirements. This method of training or fine-turning models consumes less memory. By using low rank adaptation, the pre-trained model can be quickly adapted to new tasks, without requiring a large amount of new training data.

## 8-bit model training with a low memory footprint

8-bit model training with a low memory footprint refers to a fine-tuning technique that reduces the memory requirements for training neural networks by using 8-bit integers instead of 32-bit floating-point numbers. This approach can significantly reduce the amount of memory needed to store the model's parameters and can make it possible to train larger models on hardware with limited memory capacity.

Commit message:

add llm backbone to concepts.md

documentation/docs/concepts.md, after:

# Concepts

H2O LLM Studio is based on a few key concepts and uses several key terms across its documentation. Each, in turn, is explained within the sections below.

## LLM

A Large Language Model (LLM) is a type of AI model that uses deep learning techniques and uses massive datasets to analyze and generate human-like language. For example, many AI chatbots or AI search engines are powered by LLMs.  

## LLM Backbone

LLM Backbone is the foundation model that you continue training. This option is the most important setting in experiment creation as it sets the pretrained model weights. For more information about LLM Backbone, see [Experiment settings](guide/experiments/experiment-settings.md#llm-backbone).


## Generative AI

Generative AI refers to AI models that can generate new content, such as images, videos, or text, that did not exist before. These models learn from large datasets and use this knowledge to create new content that is similar in style or content to the original dataset.


## Fine-tuning

Fine-tuning refers to the process of taking a pre-trained language model and further training it on a specific task or domain to improve its performance on that task. It is an important technique used to adapt LLMs to specific tasks and domains. 

## LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation)

Low-Rank Adapation (LoRa) involves modifying the pre-trained model by adjusting its weights and biases to better fit the new task. This adaptation is done in a way that preserves the pre-trained weights from the original dataset while also adjusting for the new task's specific requirements. This method of training or fine-turning models consumes less memory. By using low rank adaptation, the pre-trained model can be quickly adapted to new tasks, without requiring a large amount of new training data.

## 8-bit model training with a low memory footprint

8-bit model training with a low memory footprint refers to a fine-tuning technique that reduces the memory requirements for training neural networks by using 8-bit integers instead of 32-bit floating-point numbers. This approach can significantly reduce the amount of memory needed to store the model's parameters and can make it possible to train larger models on hardware with limited memory capacity.
