documentation/docs/index.md, before:

---
slug: /
displayed_sidebar: defaultSidebar
title: H2O LLM Studio | Docs
hide_table_of_contents: true
hide_title: true
---

import H2OHome from '@site/src/components/H2OHome';

<H2OHome title="H2O LLM Studio" description="A framework and no-code GUI designed for fine-tuning state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs)" sections={[
  {
    subsections: [
      {
        title: "Get started",
        icon: "rocket_launch",
        items: [
          {
            label: "What is H2O LLM Studio?",
            to: "/get-started/what-is-h2o-llm-studio",
          },
          {
            label: "Set up H2O LLM Studio",
            to: "/get-started/set-up-llm-studio",
          },
          {
            label: "Core features",
            to: "/get-started/core-features",
          },
          {
            label: "Model flow",
            to: "/get-started/llm-studio-flow",
          },
        ],
      },
      {
        title: "Datasets",
        icon: "dataset",
        subtitle: null,
        items: [
          {
            label: "Data connectors and data format",
            to: "/guide/datasets/data-connectors-format",
          },
          {
            label: "Import a dataset",
            to: "/guide/datasets/import-dataset",
          },
          {
            label: "View and manage a dataset",
            to: "/guide/datasets/view-dataset",
          },
          {
            label: "Merge datasets",
            to: "/guide/datasets/merge-datasets",
          },
        ],
      },
      {
        title: "Experiments",
        icon: "timeline",
        items: [
          {
            label: "Experiment settings",
            to: "/guide/experiments/experiment-settings",
          },
          {
            label: "Create an experiment",
            to: "/guide/experiments/create-an-experiment",
          },
          {
            label: "Monitor experiments",
            to: "/guide/experiments/view-an-experiment",
          },
          {
            label: "Compare experiments",
            to: "/guide/experiments/compare-experiments",
          },
          {
            label: "Publish model",
            to: "/guide/experiments/export-trained-model",
          },
        ],
      },
            {
        title: "Helpful links",
        icon: "link",
        items: [
          {
            label: "FAQs",
            to: "/faqs",
          },
          {
            label: "Concepts",
            to: "/concepts",
          },
          {
            label: "Videos",
            to: "/get-started/videos",
          },
          {
            label: "Key Terms",
            to: "/key-terms",
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
]} />

Commit message:

[DOCS] Adding the description syntax (#622)
* add-description

* Update llm-studio-flow.md

documentation/docs/index.md, after:

---
slug: /
displayed_sidebar: defaultSidebar
title: H2O LLM Studio | Docs
hide_table_of_contents: true
hide_title: true
description: 'A framework and no-code GUI designed for fine-tuning state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs)'
---

import H2OHome from '@site/src/components/H2OHome';

<H2OHome title="H2O LLM Studio" description="A framework and no-code GUI designed for fine-tuning state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs)" sections={[
  {
    subsections: [
      {
        title: "Get started",
        icon: "rocket_launch",
        items: [
          {
            label: "What is H2O LLM Studio?",
            to: "/get-started/what-is-h2o-llm-studio",
          },
          {
            label: "Set up H2O LLM Studio",
            to: "/get-started/set-up-llm-studio",
          },
          {
            label: "Core features",
            to: "/get-started/core-features",
          },
          {
            label: "Model flow",
            to: "/get-started/llm-studio-flow",
          },
        ],
      },
      {
        title: "Datasets",
        icon: "dataset",
        subtitle: null,
        items: [
          {
            label: "Data connectors and data format",
            to: "/guide/datasets/data-connectors-format",
          },
          {
            label: "Import a dataset",
            to: "/guide/datasets/import-dataset",
          },
          {
            label: "View and manage a dataset",
            to: "/guide/datasets/view-dataset",
          },
          {
            label: "Merge datasets",
            to: "/guide/datasets/merge-datasets",
          },
        ],
      },
      {
        title: "Experiments",
        icon: "timeline",
        items: [
          {
            label: "Experiment settings",
            to: "/guide/experiments/experiment-settings",
          },
          {
            label: "Create an experiment",
            to: "/guide/experiments/create-an-experiment",
          },
          {
            label: "Monitor experiments",
            to: "/guide/experiments/view-an-experiment",
          },
          {
            label: "Compare experiments",
            to: "/guide/experiments/compare-experiments",
          },
          {
            label: "Publish model",
            to: "/guide/experiments/export-trained-model",
          },
        ],
      },
            {
        title: "Helpful links",
        icon: "link",
        items: [
          {
            label: "FAQs",
            to: "/faqs",
          },
          {
            label: "Concepts",
            to: "/concepts",
          },
          {
            label: "Videos",
            to: "/get-started/videos",
          },
          {
            label: "Key Terms",
            to: "/key-terms",
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
]} />
