documentation/docs/guide/datasets/data-connectors-format.md, before:

# Supported data connectors and format

## Data connectors

H2O LLM Studio supports the following data connectors to access or upload external data sources.

- **Upload**: Upload a local dataset from your machine. 
- **Local**: Specify the file location of the dataset on your machine. 
- **AWS S3 (Amazon AWS S3)**: Connect to an Amazon AWS S3 data bucket. 
- **Azure Datalake**: Connect to a dataset in Azure Datalake. 
- **H2O Drive**: Upload a dataset from H2O Drive.
- **Kaggle**: Connect to a dataset hosted on Kaggle.
- **Hugging Face**: Connect to a dataset on Hugging Face.

## Data format 

- Each data connector requires either a single `.csv` or `.pq` file, or the data to be in a `.zip` file for a successful import. 

- H2O LLM studio requires a `.csv` file with a minimum of two columns, where one contains the instructions and the other has the model’s expected output. You can also include an additional validation dataframe in the same format or allow for an automatic train/validation split to assess the model’s performance.

- Optionally, a **Parent Id** can be used for training nested data prompts that are linked to a parent question. 

- During an experiment you can adapt the data representation with the following settings:
    - **Prompt Column:** The column in the dataset containing the user prompt.
    - **Answer Column:** The column in the dataset containing the expected output.
    - **Parent Id Column:** An optional column specifying the parent id to be used for chained conversations. The value of this column needs to match an additional column with the name `id`. If provided, the prompt will be concatenated after preceding parent rows.

:::info
To train a chatbot style model, you need to convert your data into a question and answer format. There are other enterprise solutions by H2O.ai that may help you prep your data. For more information, see [H2O.ai's Generative AI page](https://h2o.ai/) and this blogpost about [H2O LLM DataStudio: Streamlining Data Curation and Data Preparation for LLMs related tasks](https://h2o.ai/blog/2023/streamlining-data-preparation-for-fine-tuning-of-large-language-models/).

## Example data

H2O LLM Studio provides a sample dataset (converted dataset from [OpenAssistant/oasst2](https://huggingface.co/datasets/OpenAssistant/oasst2))
that can be downloaded [here](https://www.kaggle.com/code/philippsinger/openassistant-conversations-dataset-oasst2?scriptVersionId=160485459). It is recommended to use `train_full.csv` for training. This dataset is also downloaded and prepared by default when first starting the GUI. Multiple dataframes can be uploaded into a single dataset by uploading a `.zip` archive.

Commit message:

Improve handling of dataset validation for Causal Language Models (#865)
* Improve handling of dataset validation for Causal Language Models

* Add option to set dataset record ID if parent-id is set

* Update documentation/docs/guide/datasets/data-connectors-format.md

Co-authored-by: Sherene Mahanama <sherene.mahanama@h2o.ai>

* Update documentation/docs/tooltips/experiments/_id-column.mdx

Co-authored-by: Sherene Mahanama <sherene.mahanama@h2o.ai>

* Fix problem with reversing user selection after change in Parent-Id column

* Add Parent-id and ID validation checks before starting experiment

* Add validation checks for the parent-id/id scenarios.

---------

Co-authored-by: Sherene Mahanama <sherene.mahanama@h2o.ai>

documentation/docs/guide/datasets/data-connectors-format.md, after:

# Supported data connectors and format

## Data connectors

H2O LLM Studio supports the following data connectors to access or upload external data sources.

- **Upload**: Upload a local dataset from your machine. 
- **Local**: Specify the file location of the dataset on your machine. 
- **AWS S3 (Amazon AWS S3)**: Connect to an Amazon AWS S3 data bucket. 
- **Azure Datalake**: Connect to a dataset in Azure Datalake. 
- **H2O Drive**: Upload a dataset from H2O Drive.
- **Kaggle**: Connect to a dataset hosted on Kaggle.
- **Hugging Face**: Connect to a dataset on Hugging Face.

## Data format 

- Each data connector requires either a single `.csv` or `.pq` file, or the data to be in a `.zip` file for a successful import. 

- H2O LLM studio requires a `.csv` file with a minimum of two columns, where one contains the instructions and the other has the model’s expected output. You can also include an additional validation dataframe in the same format or allow for an automatic train/validation split to assess the model’s performance.

- Optionally, a **Parent Id** can be used for training nested data prompts that are linked to a parent question. 

- During an experiment you can adapt the data representation with the following settings:
    - **Prompt Column:** The column in the dataset containing the user prompt.
    - **Answer Column:** The column in the dataset containing the expected output.
    - **Parent Id Column:** An optional column specifying the parent id to be used for chained conversations. The value of this column needs to match an additional column with the name `id`. If provided, the prompt will be concatenated after preceding parent rows.
    - **Id Column:**  This column is only required when the `Parent Id` is set. It identifies the record ID used for linked conversations. The value in the `Parent Id` column must match this column's value.

:::info
To train a chatbot style model, you need to convert your data into a question and answer format. There are other enterprise solutions by H2O.ai that may help you prep your data. For more information, see [H2O.ai's Generative AI page](https://h2o.ai/) and this blogpost about [H2O LLM DataStudio: Streamlining Data Curation and Data Preparation for LLMs related tasks](https://h2o.ai/blog/2023/streamlining-data-preparation-for-fine-tuning-of-large-language-models/).

## Example data

H2O LLM Studio provides a sample dataset (converted dataset from [OpenAssistant/oasst2](https://huggingface.co/datasets/OpenAssistant/oasst2))
that can be downloaded [here](https://www.kaggle.com/code/philippsinger/openassistant-conversations-dataset-oasst2?scriptVersionId=160485459). It is recommended to use `train_full.csv` for training. This dataset is also downloaded and prepared by default when first starting the GUI. Multiple dataframes can be uploaded into a single dataset by uploading a `.zip` archive.
