documentation/docs/get-started/core-features.md, before:

# Core features

## No-code fine-tuning

NLP practioners can easily create and train models as well as fine-tune those models without the need for code expertise. The user interface, which is specifically designed for LLMs, allows users to upload large datasets easily and configure [hyperparameters](../concepts#parameters-and-hyperparameters) to fine-tune the model. 

## Highly customizable (wide range of hyperparameters)

H2O LLM Studio supports a wide variety of hyperparameters that can be used to fine-tune the model and supports the following fine-tuning techniques to enable advanced customization:

- [Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA)](../concepts#lora-low-rank-adaptation)
- [8-bit model training with a low memory footprint](../concepts#8-bit-model-training-with-a-low-memory-footprint)

## Advanced evaluation metrics and experiment comparison

Advanced evaluation metrics in H2O LLM Studio can be used to validate the answers generated by the LLM. This helps to make data-driven decisions about the model. It also offers visual tracking and comparison of experiment performance, making it easy to analyze and compare different fine-tuned models.You can also visualize how different parameters affect the model performance, and optionally use the [Neptune](https://neptune.ai/) integraton to track and log your experiments. 

## Instant publishing models

H2O LLM Studio enables easy model sharing with the community by allowing you to export the model to the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/h2oai) with a single click. 

## Instant feedback on model performance

Additionally, H2O LLM Studio lets you chat with the fine-tuned model and recieve instant feedback about model performance.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Adding the description syntax (#622)
* add-description

* Update llm-studio-flow.md

documentation/docs/get-started/core-features.md, after:

---
description: Learn about the core features of LLM Studio.
---
# Core features

## No-code fine-tuning

NLP practioners can easily create and train models as well as fine-tune those models without the need for code expertise. The user interface, which is specifically designed for LLMs, allows users to upload large datasets easily and configure [hyperparameters](../concepts#parameters-and-hyperparameters) to fine-tune the model. 

## Highly customizable (wide range of hyperparameters)

H2O LLM Studio supports a wide variety of hyperparameters that can be used to fine-tune the model and supports the following fine-tuning techniques to enable advanced customization:

- [Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA)](../concepts#lora-low-rank-adaptation)
- [8-bit model training with a low memory footprint](../concepts#8-bit-model-training-with-a-low-memory-footprint)

## Advanced evaluation metrics and experiment comparison

Advanced evaluation metrics in H2O LLM Studio can be used to validate the answers generated by the LLM. This helps to make data-driven decisions about the model. It also offers visual tracking and comparison of experiment performance, making it easy to analyze and compare different fine-tuned models.You can also visualize how different parameters affect the model performance, and optionally use the [Neptune](https://neptune.ai/) integraton to track and log your experiments. 

## Instant publishing models

H2O LLM Studio enables easy model sharing with the community by allowing you to export the model to the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/h2oai) with a single click. 

## Instant feedback on model performance

Additionally, H2O LLM Studio lets you chat with the fine-tuned model and recieve instant feedback about model performance.
