documentation/docs/get-started/videos.md, before:

import ReactPlayer from 'react-player'


# Videos

## The Fine Art of Fine-Tuning Large Language Models

<iframe width="930" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YWAS3QDFg40" title="The Fine Art of Fine-Tuning LLMs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>


:::info Note 
  In this video, Pascal Pfeiffer, Principal Data Scientist at H2O.ai and Kaggle Grandmaster, announces the release of H2O LLM Studio and talks about fine-tuning LLMs using H2O LLM Studio at H2O World India 2023. 
:::

---

## Basic introduction to H2O LLM Studio 

<iframe width="930" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aFU3VRGE2gk" title="Introduction to H2O LLM Studio" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>


:::info Note 
  In this video, Avkash Chauhan, founder of Prodramp Inc, gives a basic introduction about H2O LLM Studio. 
:::

----

## LLM Fine-Tuning, Falcon 40b, and the State of Open-Source

<iframe width="930" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ur-1PI9SMfw" title="Pascal Pfeiffer - Kaggle, Fine-Tuning, H2O.ai, GPT4, Falcon 40b, Open Source" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>


:::info Note 
  In this video, Pascal Pfeiffer, the Principal Data Scientist at h2o.ai is interviewed about LLM fine-tuning, being a Kaggle Grandmaster, H2O.ai, Falcon 40b, the state of open-source, and more. 
:::

Commit message:

embed new video into videos section for LLM studio (#332)
* embed-andreeas-video

* embed-andreeas-video

embed andreeas video into the video section

documentation/docs/get-started/videos.md, after:

import ReactPlayer from 'react-player'


# Videos

## Discovering the Potential of LLMs

<iframe width="930" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/u48QaIAIFw4" title="Discovering the Potential of LLMs: A Journey through H2O.ai's LLM Studio!" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>


:::info Note 
  In this video, Andreea Turcu delves in-depth into the world of language models, showcasing how users can use H2O.ai's LLM Studio to their full advantage.
:::

---

## The Fine Art of Fine-Tuning Large Language Models

<iframe width="930" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YWAS3QDFg40" title="The Fine Art of Fine-Tuning LLMs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>


:::info Note 
  In this video, Pascal Pfeiffer, Principal Data Scientist at H2O.ai and Kaggle Grandmaster, announces the release of H2O LLM Studio and talks about fine-tuning LLMs using H2O LLM Studio at H2O World India 2023. 
:::

---

## Basic introduction to H2O LLM Studio 

<iframe width="930" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aFU3VRGE2gk" title="Introduction to H2O LLM Studio" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>


:::info Note 
  In this video, Avkash Chauhan, founder of Prodramp Inc, gives a basic introduction about H2O LLM Studio. 
:::

----

## LLM Fine-Tuning, Falcon 40b, and the State of Open-Source

<iframe width="930" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ur-1PI9SMfw" title="Pascal Pfeiffer - Kaggle, Fine-Tuning, H2O.ai, GPT4, Falcon 40b, Open Source" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>


:::info Note 
  In this video, Pascal Pfeiffer, the Principal Data Scientist at h2o.ai is interviewed about LLM fine-tuning, being a Kaggle Grandmaster, H2O.ai, Falcon 40b, the state of open-source, and more. 
:::
