documentation/docs/get-started/what-is-h2o-llm-studio.md, before:

# What is H2O LLM Studio?

H2O LLM Studio is an open-source, no-code [LLM](../concepts#llm) graphical user interface (GUI) designed for fine-tuning state-of-the-art large language models. 

[Fine-tuning](../concepts#fine-tuning) a pretrained language model requires coding expertise and extensive knowledge about the model and its [hyperparameters](../concepts#parameters-and-hyperparameters), however  H2O LLM Studio enables NLP practioners to fine-tune their LLMs easily with no need for coding and better flexibility over customization. 

H2O LLM Studio also lets you chat with the fine-tuned model and recieve instant feedback about model performance.

## Who is H2O LLM Studio for?

H2O LLM Studio is a free and open-source tool that is designed for anyone who wants to create and train their own language models. It is designed to be easy to use and accessible to everyone regardless of technical expertise.

NLP practioners and data scientists in particular may find it useful to easily and effectively create and fine-tune large language models.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Adding the description syntax (#622)
* add-description

* Update llm-studio-flow.md

documentation/docs/get-started/what-is-h2o-llm-studio.md, after:

---
description: H2O LLM Studio is an open-source, no-code LLM graphical user interface (GUI) designed for fine-tuning state-of-the-art large language models. 
---
# What is H2O LLM Studio?

H2O LLM Studio is an open-source, no-code [LLM](../concepts#llm) graphical user interface (GUI) designed for fine-tuning state-of-the-art large language models. 

[Fine-tuning](../concepts#fine-tuning) a pretrained language model requires coding expertise and extensive knowledge about the model and its [hyperparameters](../concepts#parameters-and-hyperparameters), however  H2O LLM Studio enables NLP practioners to fine-tune their LLMs easily with no need for coding and better flexibility over customization. 

H2O LLM Studio also lets you chat with the fine-tuned model and recieve instant feedback about model performance.

## Who is H2O LLM Studio for?

H2O LLM Studio is a free and open-source tool that is designed for anyone who wants to create and train their own language models. It is designed to be easy to use and accessible to everyone regardless of technical expertise.

NLP practioners and data scientists in particular may find it useful to easily and effectively create and fine-tune large language models.
